---
coverImageUri: ""
title: "Full-Time!"
datetime: "2010-06-19T15:14:29.000Z"
categories: "personal"
tags: "ipc,work"
---

Last Monday was my first day as a full-time employee! It's very exciting to be able to say that; being able to have a full-time job in both of my studied fields (technology and print) is an amazing opportunity.

These past two weeks I have been in De Pere (Green Bay), Wisconsin, on-site at Independent Printing Co., Inc. As I said, my first day was June 7th, which was mostly filled with paperwork and catching up with everyone. From then on, my visit has been filled with meetings, project planning, and the occasional break to do some actual work or grab some lunch. Overall, it has been a very productive two weeks.

I enjoy working for Independent. The people are great to work with, and the overall company vibe is pleasant. It's awesome that I get to work in an area of the company that will really help push us forward into the digital age, keeping the print industry relevant and forward-thinking (a.k.a. automation).

For those of you that didn't know, I have actually worked for IPC since last June, where I spent my internship during the summer and continued working for them remotely part-time through the winter/school-year. As a matter-of-fact, I will continue to work for them remotely, with the occasional visits on-site throughout the year.

I have enjoyed my stay in Wisconsin, and had a great experience on-site at IPC, but I look forward to getting home today to see my family (especially my wife, two weeks is a long time!). Wisconsin, thank you for your hospitality, and I'll see you again in a few months.
