---
title: 'Coffee'
excerpt:
  'Both my wife and I are huge into the world of coffee – and we have the gear
  and gadgets to prove it!'
---

Both my wife and I are huge into the world of coffee – and we have the gear and
gadgets to prove it! These are some of our favorite coffee items, including
brewing methods and tools to help make our coffee an amazing experience.

## Brewing Methods

### Chemex

[![Chemex - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/61nAcf7AgpL._AC_SL1000_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/3aZHcKI)

The Chemex is our daily go-to for making coffee. It provides a well-balanced,
easy-to-drink cup, all while being easy to use (and clean). We have the 8-cup
model — it gives us enough coffee for approximately four medium-sized coffee
mugs, which easily gets us through the day or through a sitting with friends.

[Order on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/3aZHcKI)

### AeroPress

[![AeroPress - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/71iwythG2qL._AC_SL1500_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/3edGprk)

Personally, this is my favorite way to make coffee. A combination of pour-over
and pressurized extraction, it provides a full-flavored, well-bodied cup. It can
bring out the nuttiness and undertones of a coffee roast, while providing an
amazing foundation for either an Americano or other fancy coffee drink.

[Order on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/3edGprk)

### Bodum Pebo (Siphon Pot)

[![Bodum Pebo - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/416TQMQDP6L._AC_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/3b4eCYv)

Honestly, we don't use this very often. It does make an excellent brew, but it
requires so much setup to use, and the cleanup is a pain. I wish it was easier,
since we would probably use it more often. It does make for a fun showpiece,
however. There are other models that come with holders and burners, this
specific one only has the pot itself.

[Order on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/3b4eCYv)

### Bodum Young Press (French Press)

[![Bodom Young Press - Photo from Bodum](https://d9pl0lig74xnv.cloudfront.net/catalog/product/cache/eef16fc6598971ae8e58d2d4f7941eac/b/_/b_10096_364_a_1.jpg)](https://www.bodum.com/us/en/10096-364us4-young-press)

If I want to make a small batch of deep-flavored coffee, I go for my French
press. I actually found this model on sale at a small coffee and sweets shop,
but a French press is so basic that any model would do just fine.

[Order on Bodom's Website.](https://www.bodum.com/us/en/10096-364us4-young-press)

## Other Tools and Accessories

### AeroLatte

[![AeroLatte - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/51uq2JgwJlL._AC_SL1500_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/34rR8de)

A simple but easy-to-use frother for getting a good cream foam.

[Order on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/34rR8de)

### Starbucks Coffee Mugs

[![Starbuck Been There Coffee Mug Series - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/81HKEl0MHxL._AC_SL1500_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/3c8BPZK)

One of the only things that we actually "collect". We love getting the _You Are
Here_ collection or _Been There Series_ from Starbucks. If you'd like to send us
a cup, we'll gladly accept if we don't have it!

[Find Mugs on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/3c8BPZK)

## Favorite Coffees

### Starbucks Veranda

[![Starbucks Veranda - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/81xyGicE2XL._SL1500_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/2JZGlxH)

This is our standard, go-to coffee for any brewing method. It's a lighter roast,
letting the true coffee flavors come through in the brew.

[Order on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/2JZGlxH)

### 1820

[![1820 - Photo from Amazon](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/71QiwmgWT2L._SL1500_.jpg)](https://amzn.to/2V237eH)

An excellent roast from Costa Rica! We've had it brought back to us by multiple
friends, but it can be purchases online as well.

[Order on Amazon.](https://amzn.to/2V237eH)

### More Favorites to Come!

As we find more roasts we enjoy, we'll post them here!

## Favorite Syrups

Sometimes you want something a little sweet in your coffee. These are some of
our favorite syrups to add in a cup:

- [Torani Sugar-free Vanilla](https://amzn.to/2Vh0oge)
- [Torani Caramel](https://amzn.to/34qYQoa)

_Note: All Amazon links have my affialiate code; thanks for supporting me!_
