---
id: '26621'
coverImageUri: 'http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511016-Web-1000x563.jpg'
title: 'Microsoft Build 2017 – Day 2 Recap'
date: '2017-05-12'
datetime: '2017-05-12T14:08:39.000Z'
categories: 'technology'
tags:
  'microsoft,microsoft azure,microsoft build,visual studio,visual studio team
  services'
excerpt:
  "Another beautiful day in Seattle, and another amazing day at Build 2017!
  Today started off with another fantastic keynote followed by a wide array of
  awesome sessions. Here's my recap of today's events."
---

Another beautiful day in Seattle, and another amazing day at Build 2017! Today
started off with another fantastic keynote followed by a wide array of awesome
sessions. Here's my recap of today's events.

# Keynote

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511018-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511018-Web.jpg)

Today's keynote was heavily focused at improvements and additions coming to
Windows and the entire Windows ecosystem; lots of cool, exciting things coming
soon! As with yesterday's post, this is not an exhaustive list; to see all of
the announcements check out the
[official Channel 9 Build Keynote](https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Build/2017/KEY02).

## Fall Creators Update

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511038-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511038-Web.jpg)

Most of the following features will be available in the
[Fall Creators Update](https://news.microsoft.com/2017/05/11/windows-10-fall-creators-update/)
coming later this year. If you're an insider, you should be seeing a release
sometime soon.

## Windows Story Remix

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511052-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511052-Web.jpg)

This is Windows Movie Maker taken to an extreme! The ability to automagically
(is it ok to steal an Apple word in a Microsoft post?) mix your photos and
videos into a montage, apply appropriate music, and then doctor them up with
special effects is mind-blowing. I can't wait to try this out!

## Microsoft Fluent Design System

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511067-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511067-Web.jpg)

Microsoft continues to push their commitment on a cohesive, beautiful experience
in their Windows applications. The material design demonstrated looks great,
especially when the apps scale to different window and device sizes. This is of
course not just limited to standard, "boring" desktop applications, but allows
developers to create immersive experiences in their applications. Check out the
[official Microsoft Fluent Design System website](http://fluent.microsoft.com/)
for more details.

## OneDrive Files On-Demand

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511086-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511086-Web.jpg)

This is what Dropbox was supposed to be. A simple, but very powerful, way to
sync the files that you want from a device, to the cloud, and down to any other
device you need the content on. Not only that, but throw in some predictive
logic and Windows and OneDrive will figure out which files should go to the
cloud without you having to do a thing.

## Timeline

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511091-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511091-Web.jpg)

Pick up where I left off. What a simple, but often difficult to get right, user
experience. Windows attempts to make a seamless experience between your PC and
other devices, noticing your workflow habits and helping you to resume your
tasks from one device to another. You won't be context switching when your
context follows you around.

## Cloud-Powered Clipboard

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511117-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511117-Web.jpg)

As simple as this is, this is probably my favorite feature of the day. The
number of times that I've emailed myself a document, picture, or even just a
blurb of text so that I could use it on another device is insane. No longer will
this be an issue, as the Cloud-Powered Clipboard will keep your snippets in sync
across your device (yes, even iOS and Android!).

## Love All The Devices!

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511125-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511125-Web.jpg)

Microsoft continues to set the bar high with not just their awesome Windows
announcements, but that other platforms are supported in extending these
features outside the bounds of your desktop. Good work Microsoft for being an
inclusive ecosystem! Now, can we talk about getting Cloud-Powered Clipboard
on MacOS… please?

## .NET Standard 2.0 for UWP and XAML Standard 1.0

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511163-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511163-Web.jpg)

This continues the trend from yesterday's keynote of making the .NET ecosystem
more standard across all platforms. New to the standardization process is XAML
Standard 1.0; if you've worked with XAML in the past you know that it can become
a bit of a mess when you need to support different platforms (e.g. UWP and
Xamarin); this stack will finally start to become unified.

## iTunes on the Windows Store

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511191-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511191-Web.jpg)

To me, this is a huge announcement. This is not just an effort from Microsoft,
but a sign of collaboration between Microsoft and Apple. When we work as a team,
we win as a team!

## Ubuntu, Suse, and Fedora Linux on Windows 10

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511202-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511202-Web.jpg)

Expanding the Linuxy-goodness of Ubuntu on Windows, two new OS's will be added
in: Suse and Fedora Linux. It's great to see the \*nix platform being available
across the other OS's, as this opens up many possibilities for developers with
the many command line tools, daemons, and other services available in the Linux
ecosystem.

## Xamarin Live

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511205-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511205-Web.jpg)

While I'm not much of a native mobile app developer, this demo was great to see.
It's amazing how easy it is to build an iOS application in Visual Studio, use
the Xamarin Live player on an iOS device, and debug in realtime. Updates could
even be made to the application while it was running with the changes reflected
nearly instantaneously!

## Windows is the Ultimate Dev Box

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511216-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511216-Web.jpg)

Microsoft truly continues to impress the developer community in its dedication
to the ultimate dev experience. Whether you're targeting Windows with a UWP
application, developing web or mobile applications, or even want to go cross
platform, Microsoft, Windows, and Visual Studio are there to help you get the
job done.

## Windows Mixed Reality

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511245-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511245-Web.jpg)

The technology in this space is incredible. HoloLens has progressed since it was
first introduced and VR headsets have dropped into consumer friendly price
ranges. To show off some of the amazing work being done in the mixed reality
space, mixed reality being a combination of VR (virtual reality), AR (augmented
reality), and real world interactions, Cirque du Soleil came on stage to show
how they use HoloLens to develop and coordinate their set designs. A very
impressive demonstration!

# Sessions

The wealth of knowledge continues with another set of sessions to extend on the
topics presented over the last two keynotes.

## Azure Resource Manager Templates: Life After (First) Deployment

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511034-2-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511034-2-Web.jpg)

Microsoft continues to make improvements to its Azure Resource Manager and the
templates that can be used to create and manage Azure resources. Many new
announcements on the templates were introduced in this session, such as new
processing functions, the ability to have conditional logic within templates, as
well as deploying to multiple resource groups.
[Code from the demos are all available on GitHub](https://github.com/rjmax/Build2017).

In addition to showing new ARM features, a new service was announced: Azure
Deployment Manager (ADM). ADM is a service that will help orchestrate your
deployments to Azure resources; this will help streamline the entire cloud stack
from the platforms that you use to the code you deploy. It is currently in
[limited preview](https://aka.ms/admprivatepreview).

## Design for Serverless Success on Microsoft Azure

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511071-2-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511071-2-Web.jpg)

As mentioned in the day one keynote, Azure Functions and other serverless
services have made great strides in ease-of-access, use, and deployment. In this
session, it was demonstrated how to wire up a complete workflow of serverless
Functions and Logic Apps to provide a scaleable, affordable web application
infrastructure. It's exciting to see how easy it is to setup the serverless
workflows, being able to serve static content from blob storage to processing
advanced workflows with Logic Apps.

## Container Apps on Azure App Service Are Like Peanut Butter and Chocolate

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511116-2-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511116-2-Web.jpg)

I'm totally geeked on containers, and so is the Azure App Service team! It's
interesting to see how they're implementing Linux support in App Services by
using containers under the hood and what options that brings to the end user.
For example, it would have been nearly impossible to run a Ruby on Rails
application using the standard App Service model, but with
bring-your-own-container you're able to roll your own application environment.
And while they do offer a handful of "blessed images", the major push is that
you would BYOC to get the perfect environment for your application.

## Azure Cosmos DB: NoSQL Capabilities Everyone Should Know About

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511159-2-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511159-2-Web.jpg)

In this Tech Talk, we were able to see some of the massive improvements that
Microsoft has made to not only the DocumentDB APIs, but the actual
infrastructure that has been put in place to support the high availability,
throughput, and consistency in Cosmos DB. I'm excited to dig into this new
service and experiment with the scalability and power that it offers.

## Containerizing Your Microsoft ASP.NET 4.x Apps

[![](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511175-2-Web-1200x900.jpg)](http://assets.brandonmartinez.com/brandonmartinez/2017/05/20170511175-2-Web.jpg)

Containers aren't just for your new apps, but a great way to wrap your old ones
as well. This session focused on taking an existing ASP.NET 4 application,
wrapping it in a container, and deploying it out to Service Fabric using the
Windows Server Core and SQL Server Developer images to run and scale the
application. It was impressive to see how easy it was to wrap the old
application in Visual Studio, as well as how simple it was to scale it out in
Service Fabric. This has a lot of potential for migrating applications that
might not have been initially designed to be cloud-friendly (i.e. PaaS-capable)
that you want to get off a traditional server infrastructure and into the cloud.

# Final Thoughts

Yet another amazing day at the Build 2017 conference. I'm excited to put all the
information I'm learning to use in both my own and client applications.
Microsoft is outdoing themselves in their technology stacks and are definitely
leading the way in cloud, desktop, and cross-platform development. I'm looking
forward to finishing the week with Day 3!
